langur
======

Scripts to turn an RPi into my home router. Not a router: *my* router.

Copyright (c) 2016 Josh Myer
License: CC0

Motivation
----------

At home, I use a Raspberry Pi as a router for my internet connection.  This
allows me to have tens to hundreds of thousands of concurrent connections
open (really), which I needed for some research I did.

I have recently been annoyed by a few things about my internet connection,
so I added smokeping to the stack.  I currently use an original RPi B,
which has a hard time rendering the MRTG outputs from that.  I also realized
that I had misconfigured the reboot process after the power went out the
other day, and I had to manually go in and restart some interfaces on the
RPi.  It's time to upgrade to the RPi2 I have lying around, and to make the
setup a bit more repeatable in the process.

This is probably not a setup you want to use as-is, but it may help you get
the first iteration of an RPi router going quickly.  Feel free to fork this
and tweak it to your heart's content.  If you add cool stuff on the wishlist,
please submit a PR!  I'd love to have someone else add MRTG or tripwire or
some such for me.


Assumptions
-----------

You're going to use eth0, the hardware ethernet, as your upstream internet
connection.

You're going to have a USB ethernet adaptor for eth1, your downstream connection.

You may or may not have a cheapo USB wifi adaptor to use as a WAP.  This is
intended mostly as a backdoor to connect in if eth1 fails for whatever reason,
not as an actual internet connection.  Probably works as one, though.

Because this is my personal router, it also includes an APRS IGate that uses
an RTL-SDR dongle.  It will probably have other weird radio tricks up its
sleeves, and you probably don't want any of them.


Directions
----------

Copy this repo over to your RPi (I just install git and clone it).

sudo ./deploy.sh

Pray.

Reboot, and it should be up and running.


Contents
--------
deploy.sh -- the shell script that coordinates the install
files/    -- a mirror of the filesystem that gets splatted onto your drive
build/    -- random tools used when figuring out what to include here
